A threadlike strand of DNA in the nucleus of a cell that carries the genes in a linear order.
The process by which cells or parts of an organism change during development to serve a specific function.
The exterior protective or supporting structure of many animals, including bony parts such as nails or scales or hoofs.
The perception of body position and movement and muscular tensions, etc.
Cell division that produces reproductive cells in sexually reproducing organisms.
Diffusion of molecules through a semipermeable membrane from a place of higher concentration to a place of lower concentration until the concentration on both sides are equal.
Synthesis of compounds with the aid of radiant energy (especially in plants).
The relation between two different species of organisms that are interdependent.
Practice of classifying plants and animals according to their presumed natural relationships.
A tiny cavity filled with fluid in the cytoplasm of a cell.
Relating to or containing an alkali.
A substance that initiates or accelerates a chemical reaction without itself being affected.
A nuclear reaction in which a massive nucleus splits into smaller nuclei with the simultaneous release of energy.
An organic compound containing only carbon and hydrogen.
One of two or more atoms with the same atomic number but with different numbers of neutrons.
The simplest structural unit of an element or compound.
A part of the cell containing DNA and RNA and responsible for growth and reproduction.
A body having finite mass and internal structure but negligible dimensions.
The phenomenon of forming chemical bonds.
Resistance of a liquid to shear forces (and hence to flow).
The act of accelerating.
The maximum displacement of a periodic wave.
A logarithmic unit of sound intensity.
The tendency of a body to return to its original shape after it has been stretched or compressed.
The number of occurrences within a given time period.
The tendency of a body to maintain its state of rest or uniform motion unless acted upon by an external force.
Impelling or impelled forward.
Any mechanical force that tends to retard or oppose motion.
A variable quantity of or relating to a directionless magnitude (such as mass or speed etc.) that is completely specified by its magnitude.
The speed of something in a given direction.
A precise rule (or set of rules) specifying how to solve some problem.
RAM memory that is set aside as a specialized buffer storage that is continually updated.
Use of a computer program to translate source code written in a particular programming language into computer-readable machine code that can be executed.
A unit of information equal to 1024 mebibytes or 2^30 (1,073,741,824) bytes.
The mechanical, magnetic, electronic, and electrical components making up a computer system.
A printed circuit board containing the principal components of a computer or other device, with connectors into which other circuit boards can be slotted.
Anything that comes out of a computer.
Manipulating data within the computer.
A person who designs and writes and tests computer programs.
The set of rules that defines the combinations of symbols that are considered to be a correctly structured document or fragment in a given language.
The mathematics of generalized arithmetical operations.
The procedure of calculating.
A quantity measuring the extent of interdependence of variable quantities.
The divisor of a fraction.
A mathematical notation indicating the number of times a quantity is multiplied by itself.
Bounded or limited in magnitude or spatial or temporal extent.
The side of a right triangle opposite the right angle.
A complex number that can be written as a real number multiplied by the imaginary unit i, which is defined by its property i2 = -1.
The exponent required to produce a given number.
The likelihood of something happening in the future.
A person who actively opposes or is hostile to someone or something.
The decisive moment in a novel or play.
The final resolution of the main complication of a literary or dramatic work.
Extravagant exaggeration.
Incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs.
A figure of speech in which an expression is used to refer to something that it does not literally denote in order to suggest a similarity.
Using words that imitate the sound they denote.
Repetition of similar or identical sounds.
A (usually long) dramatic speech intended to give the illusion of unspoken reflections.
A fixed number of lines of verse forming a unit of a poem.
Gradually increasing in tempo.
Elaborate and extensive ornamentation in decorative art and architecture that flourished in Europe in the 17th century.
A wind instrument that consists of a brass tube (usually of variable length) that is blown by means of a cup-shaped or funnel-shaped mouthpiece.
A recurrent rhythmical series.
Gradually decreasing in volume.
A group of musicians playing or singing together.
A percussion instrument consisting of a set of graduated metal bars mounted on a frame and played with small hammers.
A long and complex sonata for a symphony orchestra.
A shallow drum with a single drumhead and with metallic disks in the sides.
A pulsating effect in an instrumental or vocal tone produced by slight and rapid variations in pitch.
A concept or idea not associated with any specific instance.
Describes images derived from biological or natural forms.
Beautiful handwriting.
A paste-up made by sticking together pieces of paper or photographs to form an artistic image.
The birth process of an artistic idea, from the initial creative impulse through aesthetic refinement, problem-solving, and visualization/realization.
The creation of artistic pictures or diagrams.
A characteristic of some art, generally since the mid-19th century, leaning toward the expression of emotion over objective description.
Painting entirely in monochrome (tones of one color), in a series of grays.
A style of painting which uses an analysis of tone (value) and color of its subject, resulting in a representation of the appearance of forms or landscapes.
A two-dimensional combining of photographs or parts of photographs into an image on paper or other material.
Grant a pardon to (a group of people).
A political theory favoring collectivism in a classless society.
The political orientation of those who favor government by the people or by their elected representatives.
The action of changing from colonial to independent status.
The social system that developed in Europe in the 8th century.
The doctrine that your national culture and interests are superior to any other.
A form of government whose head of state is not a monarch.
A doctrine that rejects religion and religious considerations.
An economic system based on state ownership of capital.
Absolute control by the state or a governing branch of a highly centralized institution.
Elevation, especially above sea level or above the earth's surface.
The science or practice of drawing maps.
Navigational instrument for finding directions.
An outline, especially one representing or bounding the shape or form of something.
Distance of something above a reference point (such as sea level).
An imaginary line around the Earth forming the great circle that is equidistant from the north and south poles.
Half of the terrestrial globe.
The difference in elevation (or height) between parts of the Earth's surface.
Precise, detailed study of the surface features of a region.
Either of two corresponding parallels of latitude on the terrestrial globe, one about 23.5 degrees N, and the other about 23.5 degrees S of the equator, being the boundaries of the Torrid Zone.